[docs] Add Golang to Languages and Frameworks (#384)
gitpod-io/website: src/docs/go_in_gitpod.md

# Go

> 

Reviewer: No need for three empty lines here. One should be enough.

```suggestion
```

Gitpod supports Go right out of the box, but there are still ways to optimize your Go experience within Gitpod.

## Examples
Before we start, here are some already gitpodified repositories to give you an idea of what to expect!

| Name    | Open In Gitpod Button |
|---------|----------------------:|
| [go-swagger/go-swagger](https://github.com/go-swagger/go-swagger) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/go-swagger/go-swagger) |
| [gitpod-io/go-gin-app](https://github.com/gitpod-io/go-gin-app) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/gitpod-io/go-gin-app)
| [gosh-terminal/gosh](https://github.com/gosh-terminal/gosh) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/gosh-terminal/gosh)
| [gitpod-io/self-hosted](https://github.com/gitpod-io/self-hosted) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/gitpod-io/self-hosted)

## Workspace Configuration
### VSCode Extensions
| Name    | Description |
|---------|----------------------|

> | [Go Test Explorer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=premparihar.gotestexplorer) | Provides Test Explorer for Go which enables to run your tests at the click of a button!

Reviewer: Your Markdown table seems broken:

```suggestion
| [Go Test Explorer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=premparihar.gotestexplorer) | Provides Test Explorer for Go which enables to run your tests at the click of a button! |
```

Also, maybe it doesn't need to be a table.

### Pre-builds
Modern development is powered by OSS (Open Source Software) and as such external dependencies are a fact of life luckily in go it does not take long to gather these dependencies, so here is how to have them automatically fetched before you open your Gitpod workspace!
```yaml
tasks:
  - init: go get -v -t -d ./...
```
A full example of a [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/41_config_gitpod_file/) file might look like this
```yaml
image: gitpod/workspace-full

tasks:
  - init: go get -v -t -d ./...

vscode:
  extensions:

>     - premparihar.gotestexplorer@0.1.10:jvUM8akrQ67vQxfjaxCgCg==

Reviewer: Nit: I find it weird that the information on how to install the "Go Test Explorer" extension is in this section and not already in the "VS Code Extensions" section.

```

> ### Using the deps dependency manager in Gitpod

Reviewer: I think it's called `dep`, not `deps`.

```suggestion
### Using the `dep` dependency manager in Gitpod
```

> If your project uses the deps dependency manager then you need to add a [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/42_config_docker/) to your project a basic example that extends the default workspace image might be something like

Reviewer: Same as above. Also, a link to the project's website can't hurt.

```suggestion
If your project uses the [`dep`](https://golang.github.io/dep/) dependency manager then you need to add a [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/42_config_docker/) to your project a basic example that extends the default workspace image might be something like
```

Reviewer: Also this whole sentence is very long and feels like it should be two sentences.

```Dockerfile
FROM gitpod/workspace-full

USER gitpod

> RUN brew update && brew install dep

Reviewer: I don't think you need to run `brew update`.

```suggestion
RUN brew install dep
```

# Go

> > 🚧 Please help improve this guide by [editing it](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/gitpod-io/website/blob/master/src/docs/julia_in_gitpod.md).

Reviewer: Please don't use these banners. I know it was my idea, but in hindsight it was a bad idea 😅 because then it looks like the entire documentation is always under contruction and never finished. All-in-all it's a bit distracting from the main content.

```suggestion
```

> Gitpod supports Go right out of the box using the default workspace image, but there is always room for improvement, so here is how to optimize your experience using Go within Gitpod.

Reviewer: I'd personally simplify this like so:

```suggestion
Gitpod supports Go right out of the box, but there are still ways to optimize your Go experience within Gitpod.
```

## Examples

> Before we start, here are some already gitpodified repositories to give you an idea of what to expect!

Reviewer: Super cool Examples section! 👍

Author: Thanks

| Name    | Open In Gitpod Button |
|---------|----------------------:|
| [go-swagger/go-swagger](https://github.com/go-swagger/go-swagger) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/go-swagger/go-swagger) |
| [gitpod-io/go-gin-app](https://github.com/gitpod-io/go-gin-app) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/gitpod-io/go-gin-app)
| [gosh-terminal/gosh](https://github.com/gosh-terminal/gosh) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/gosh-terminal/gosh)
| [gitpod-io/self-hosted](https://github.com/gitpod-io/self-hosted) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/gitpod-io/self-hosted)

## Workspace Configuration
### VSCode Extensions
| Name    | Description |
|---------|----------------------|

> | [Go Test Explorer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=premparihar.gotestexplorer) | Provides Test Explorer for Go

Reviewer: Maybe there is no need to list VS Code extensions for Go in a table? I think there are few of them (only one currently), and it would be nice to add one or two sentences, and a screenshot, to give users an idea what the extension actually does.

E.g. as a noobie Go developer, I don't know what a "Test Explorer for Go" is, what it looks like, or how I should use it.

### Pre-builds
Modern development is powered by OSS (Open Source Software) and as such external dependencies are a fact of life luckily in go it does not take long to gather these dependencies, so here is how to have them automatically fetched before you open your Gitpod workspace!
```yaml
tasks:
  - init: go get -v -t -d ./...
```

> A full example of a `.gitpod.yml` file might look like this

Reviewer: Maybe a tiny bit of guidance for new users as to what a `.gitpod.yml` is (maybe just making ".gitpod.yml" a link to the [relevant docs page](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/41_config_gitpod_file/) would do here).

```yaml
image: gitpod/workspace-full

tasks:
  - init: go get -v -t -d ./...

vscode:
  extensions:
    - premparihar.gotestexplorer@0.1.10:jvUM8akrQ67vQxfjaxCgCg==
```

### Using the deps dependency manager in Gitpod

> If your project uses the deps dependency manager then you need to add a `.gitpod.Dockerfile` to your project a basic example that extends the default workspace image might be something like

Reviewer: Here I think brand-new users may appreciate a little bit of guidance as to what a `.gitpod.Dockerfile` is, what it does, and how you can get one.

```Dockerfile
FROM gitpod/workspace-full

USER gitpod

RUN sudo apt-get -q update \
    && sudo apt-get install go-dep \

>     && sudo rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

Reviewer: Please check whether this can be done with `brew`. 🙂 (If not, or if you don't trust Homebrew to install `go-dep` correctly, feel free to keep using `apt-get`).

Author: Would you rather I install things with brew from now on?

Reviewer: Yes please, but please make sure it works well first.

```

> Also a slightly modified `.gitpod.yml`

Reviewer: Why is it slightly modified?

Suggestion to clarify:
```suggestion
Also, don't forget to reference the above Dockerfile in your `.gitpod.yml` configuration file, like so:
```

```yaml
image:
  file: .gitpod.Dockerfile

> 

Reviewer: Nit: Remove extra empty line.
```suggestion
```

| [gitpod-io/self-hosted](https://github.com/gitpod-io/self-hosted) | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/gitpod-io/self-hosted) |

## Workspace Configuration

### VSCode Extensions

| Name                                                                                               | Description                                                                             |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Go Test Explorer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=premparihar.gotestexplorer) | Provides Test Explorer for Go which enables to run your tests at the click of a button! |

To install Go Test Explorer for your repository, add the following to your [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/41_config_gitpod_file/)

```YAML
vscode:
  extensions:
    - premparihar.gotestexplorer@0.1.10:jvUM8akrQ67vQxfjaxCgCg==
```

> ### **[Pre-builds](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/46_prebuilds/)**

Reviewer: I still don't think "Pre-builds" is a good title for this section:
- It's confusing (users don't know what it is, unless they read another lengthy page of our documentation)
- Also, installing dependencies is not technically a "pre-build" (but rather, a prebuilt workspace may contain dependencies, among other things)

I still believe that "Start-up tasks" is a better title, because as a user, I be interested in making Gitpod do stuff when the workspace starts. (I'm not at all interested in reading a list of things called a confusing name like "Pre-builds").

> Here is how to have them automatically fetched before you open your Gitpod workspace!

Reviewer: As a reader, I have no idea what "them" refers to here. Did you accidentally remove a sentence?

> Modern development is powered by OSS (Open Source Software) and as such external dependencies are a fact of life luckily in go it does not take long to gather these dependencies, so here is how to have them automatically fetched before you open your Gitpod workspace!

Reviewer: I find this long sentence/commentary about open source and dependencies and life a little bit long.

In general, I'd find it great to laser-focus all the text and information to just: what does a Go programmer need to be productive in Gitpod?

And trying to keep it simple, e.g. like so:

> # Go in Gitpod
> If you want to work on Go code using Gitpod, there is nothing special you need to do: Gitpod supports Go out-of-the-box. But here are a few tips that you may find useful:
> ## VS Code extensions
> A useful extension that you can install is [Go Test Explorer]. It provides a Tests Explorer for Go which allows you to run your tests at the click of a button.
> To install it for your GitHub project, you can simply create a `.gitpod.yml` configuration file, and add these lines to it:
> [yaml snippet]
> When you add, commit and push this file to GitHub, any new workspaces created for your repository will have Go Test Explorer pre-installed.
> ## Start-up tasks
> In the same `.gitpod.yml` file, you can set up commands that Gitpod should run in a Terminal whenever a workspace is started for your repository.
> To automatically fetch all dependencies, simply add these lines to your `.gitpod.yml` file:
> [yaml snippet]
> ## Installing the `dep` dependency manager in Gitpod
> If your project uses the [`dep`] dependency manager, you'll need to install it in your workspace. You can do  this with one simple command:
> [brew install dep]
> If you'd like everyone to have `dep` pre-installed when they open a Gitpod workspace for your repository, you should create a `.gitpod.Dockerfile` file that contains this:
> [dockerfile]
> Then you'll also need to reference this new Dockerfile in your `.gitpod.yml` file, e.g. by adding these lines at the top:
> [yaml snippet]
> Now you can simply add and commit both files, and push them to GitHub. The next time someone will open your repository in Gitpod, they will have `dep` already pre-installed.

```yaml
tasks:
  - init: go get -v -t -d ./...
```

A full example of a [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/41_config_gitpod_file/) file might look like this

```yaml
image: gitpod/workspace-full

tasks:
  - init: go get -v -t -d ./...

vscode:
  extensions:
    - premparihar.gotestexplorer@0.1.10:jvUM8akrQ67vQxfjaxCgCg==
```

### Using the `dep` dependency manager in Gitpod

> If your project uses the [`dep`](https://golang.github.io/dep/) dependency manager then you need to add a [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/42_config_docker/) to your project a basic example that extends the default workspace image might be something like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your project uses the [`dep`](https://golang.github.io/dep/) dependency manager then you need to add a [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/42_config_docker/) to your project. A basic example that extends the default workspace image might be something like:
```
